\*\*\*\*# Docker

1. docker --version
2. docker info
3. docker pull
   1. pull a docker image from docker hub and run container from it
4. docker build -t imagename
   1. build a docker image from docker file
5. docker images
   1. list out all docker images from the local system
6. docker rmi imageName
   1. removes a docker image from your local system
7. docker ps
   1. list all running contaniers
8. docker ps -a
   1. list all containers even the stopped ones
9. docker stop containerId
10. docker start containerId
11. docker run containterId
    1. create and start container from specified image
    2. creates a new container instance from given image
    3. intializses file system
    4. setup netwrok interface and ip address
12. docker rm containerId
13. docker logs containerId
14. docker exec -it containerId coomand?
    1. run on already running contaoners
    2. execites a command already on a running container
    3. useful for interacting with existing running container
15. docker-compose?

## Docker exec

1. -d run the command in bg
   1. docker exec -d container
2. -i (--interactive)
   1. keep stdin open if not attached
   2. useful when you want to interact with the command
3. -t
   1. docker exec -it container /bin/

## Docker port mapping

- whenever a docker runs a process it allocates its own ip address
- to access the process running with the docker u need to be within that ip address
- as it is an internal ip address we cannot idrectly access so, what we do tell docker connect this ip (incoming) with prit 80 to forward it to your ip(docker process ip) on port 3000
- `docker run -it -p 80:3001 imageName`

## Docker volume mapping

- a docker container will have it own volume and when you remove the docker container all you data is lost
- `docker run -v /my/local/dir: /var/dir/in/dokcer/container docker imahe`

## Docker inspect

- tell you more bout docker container
- `docker inspect docker name || docker container id`

## -i

- map stdin of your host to docker container (-i)

## -t

- attaches stdout of docker container to my host

## -e

- `docker run -e ENV_VAR_NAME=VALUE containerId`
- `docker inspect containerId` -> under config -> env
