# REST - REpresentational state transfer

- It is an architectural style that describes an interface that how to computers systems use to exchange information securly over the internet.

## API

- APIs is a mechanism that enable two software components to communicate with each other using a set of definitions and protocols.
- A software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
- Public,
- Private
- Partner

## REST API.

- An API which follows guidelines provided by the REST architecture pattern.

## Why REST API.

- Scalable
- Flexiable
- Indendency
- Can be used to multiple technologies

## Guidelines

1. Uniform Interface
2. Client Server.
3. Stateless.
4. Cacheable
5. Layered System

## Uniform Interface

- The REST interface is designed to be efficient for large-grain hypermedia data transfer, optimizing for the common case of the Web, but resulting in an interface that is not optimal for other forms of architectural interaction.

## Client - Server

- Separation of concerns is the principle behind the client-server constraints.
- By separating the user interface concerns from the data storage concerns, we improve the **portability of the user interface across multiple platforms and improve scalability by simplifying the server components**.
- Perhaps most significant to the Web, however, is that the separation allows the components to evolve independently,thus supporting the **Internet-scale requirement of multiple organizational domains**.

## Stateless

- communication must be stateless in nature.
- each request from client to server must contain all of the information necessary to understand the request, and cannot take advantage of any stored context on the server.
- Session state is therefore kept entirely on the client.
- This constraint induces the properties of visibility, reliability, and scalability
- **_Visibility_**:
- **_Reliability_**:
- **_Scalability_**:
  - improved because not having to store state between requests allows the server component to quickly free resources, and further simplifies implementation because the server doesn't have to manage resource usage across requests.

## Cons of being stateless.

- The disadvantage is that it may **decrease network performance** by **increasing the repetitive data** (per-interaction overhead) sent in a series of requests, since that data cannot be left on the server in a shared context.
- Placing the application state on the client-side reduces the **server's control over consistent application behavior**.

## Cacheable

- data within a response to a request be **implicitly** or **explicitly** labeled as **cacheable** or **non-cacheable**.
- If the response is cacheable, the client application gets the **right to reuse the response data** later for equivalent requests and a specified period.
- The **advantage** of adding cache constraints is that they
  1. have the potential to partially or completely eliminate some interactions, improving efficiency, scalability
  2. user-perceived performance by reducing the average latency of a series of interactions.
- The **trade-off**, however, is that a cache can **decrease reliability** (of data) if stale data within the cache differs significantly from the data that would have been obtained had the request been sent directly to the server.

## Layered system

- Layers can be used to encapsulate legacy services and to protect new services from legacy clients, simplifying components by moving infrequently used functionality to a shared intermediary
- Intermediaries can also be used to improve system scalability by enabling **load balancing of services across multiple networks and processors**.
- The primary **disadvantage** of layered systems is that they add **overhead and latency to the processing of data, reducing user-perceived performance**.

## Rules of REST

1. URI of a REST API should always end with a noun.
2. HTTP verbs should articulate the action.
3. URL should determine what needs to be done using endpoint and http verb.
4. send proper HTTP Status code.
5. Always use plurals in URL to keep an API URI.

## REST vs RESTful

- The main difference is, in REST ,data format is based on HTTP where as in RESTful the data format can be from HTTP, text and JSON.
- RESTful is the web service that adheres to REST architectural constraints.

## Constraints to qualify as a RESTful API.

1. Uniform Resource Identifier (URI). The name of a web service resource is identified by a URI.
2. HTTP. The API is HTTP-based interface and it is driven by hypertext.
3. Hypermedia. A hyperlink represents a resource's state.

## RESTFUL architecture view

1. Process view (interaction is in the form of data flow in a system).
2. Connector view.
3. Data view.
