# Linux

- A Linux command is a program or utility that runs on the CLI
- Syntax : command option(s)[shape the command operation (optional)] parameter(s) [provide necessary info (required)]

1. sudo (super user do)
   - performs tasks as an administrator (root access).
   - a timestamp is created for that session.
   - 15 mins/ session
2. pwd
3. cd
4. ls
   - ls -R lists files in sub dir
   - ls -a lists hidden files
   - ls -lh list file sizes in human readable format.
5. cat
   - write files content to std output
6. cp
   - cp -R copy directory.
7. mv
8. mkdir
   - mkdir -p creates dir hierarchy `mkdir -p Music/2020/Songs`.
   - mkdir -m sets dir permission `mkdir -m777 directory_name`.
9. rmdir
   - remove mt dir.
10. rm
    - removes both files and dir.
    - rm -rf recursive and force.
    - rm -i **prompts system confirmation before deleting a file**.
11. touch
    - creates a file
12. locate
    - finds for a file in db
    - locate -i filename
13. find
    - find a file within a dir
    - default is the current dir.
    - `find -name filename.txt`
    - `find ./ -type d -name directoryname`
    - `find /home -name notes.txt`
14. grep
    - global regular expression print.
    - finds for word in a file with a pattern.
    - `grep blue notepad.txt`
15. df
    - print system’s disk space usage, shown in percentage and kilobyte (KB).
    - df -h
16. du
    - check how much space a file or a directory takes up,
    - du -s total size of a specified folder
    - `du -sh`
17. head
    - first 10 lines
    - head -n 5 file.txt
18. tail
    - last 10 lines
    - tail -n 120 file.tx
19. diff
    - compares two contents of a file line by line. After analyzing them, it will display the parts that do not match.
    - `diff file1 file2`
20. tar
    - compress a group of files into an archive.
    - extract, maintain, or modify tar archives.
    - combines multiple files and/or directories together into a single file.
    - `tar -cf archive name file names.`
    - tar -c create
    - -f archive name
    - `tar -tvf tar file` shows content of tar file
    - Compress
    - `tar -tvzf tarfile file names`
21. chmod
22. chown
23. jobs
    - A job is a process that the shell starts
    - The jobs command will display all the running processes along with their statuses
    - jobs options jobId
24. kill
    - terminate a process.
    - `kill pId`
25. ping
    - checks whether a network or a server is reachable.
    - `ping google.com`
26. wget
    - download files from the internet
    - http, https, ftp etc.
    - runs in bg.
    - `wget options url`
27. uname
    - prints detail information about the system
    - a All the info
    - s kernel name
    - n hosts name
28. top
    - activity monitor
    - displays all the running processes and a dynamic real-time view of the current system
29. history
    - prints the history of commands
    - c clean / clear history
    - `d offset` deletes hostory from offset point
    - a append to history
30. man manual
31. echo
32. zip
    - Zip files
    - It can automatically choose the best compression ratio.
    - `zip archive.zip note.txt`
    - `unzip archive.zip`
33. hostname
    - know the system’s hostname.
    - a hostname alias
    - i ipaddress
    - A machine’s Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN).
34. useradd
35. userdel
36. apt-get
    - advance package tool
37. nano vi jed.
38. alias unalias
39. htop
    - activity monitor
40. ps
    - produces a snapshot of all running processes in your system.
    - static results are taken from the virtual files in the /proc file system.
    - a list processes of other users
    - x process not only linked to the current terminal
41. awk
42. sed
43. dig
    - used to gather DNS information
    - Domain Information Groper, and it collects data about Domain Name Servers.
    - helpful for troubleshooting DNS problems
    - dig domain name - A record
    - +short
    - +nocomments
    - +noall +answer
    - +trace
44. lsof
    - list of open files
    - it gives the information to find out the files which are opened by which process
    - lsof -u username
    - lsof -i TCP:22
45. ssh
46. wc
    - l count lines
    - c count bytes
    - w count words
47. sort

    - sorts the file content alphabetically.
    - r reverse the sort order.
    - S by size
    - u removes duplicates
    - n numeric sort
    - R random sort

48. uniq
    - d display duplicate only
    - u display onlu unq
    - c display occurences of each item
49. expansions
50. bg and fg
51. export
52. crontab
53. env
54. printenv
55. traceroute
56. xargs
57. nohup
    - run a command even after you log out or close the session.
    - `nohup command`
58. type
59. emacs
60. vim
61. dirname
    - provides the dirname from the given path
62. basename

    - provide the basename from the file path

63. umask
