# CORS

- Cross origin Resource Sharing (A.K.A. Cross-Domain AJAX request)
- An HTTP header `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` is cors header.

## What is an origin

- An origin is a combination of hostname, port, and scheme

      http://foo.example.com:8080/
      ^^^^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^
      ||  		|| 			 ||
      scheme 	hostname  	port

- `HTTP` and `HTTPS` origins are different.
- You must explicitly specify whether the resource is accessible from the origin with an `HTTP` scheme or the origin with an `HTTPS` scheme.

# Concept.

1. When Site A tries to fetch content from Site B, Site B can send an `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` response header to tell the browser that the content of this page is accessible to certain origins.
2. **By default**, Site B's pages are **not accessible** to any other origin; using the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header opens a door for **cross-origin access** by specific requesting origins.
3. Modern browsers will **not block cross-domain requests outright**.The browser will actually fetch the requested page on the network level and check if the response headers list Site A as a permitted requester domain.
4. If Site B has not indicated that Site A is allowed to access this page, the browser will trigger the XMLHttpRequest's error event and deny the response data to the requesting JavaScript code
5. First, the browser sends a preflight OPTIONS, and it waits ito send the real request that will trigger some action on the server. If the server does not say, "Yes, send the real request," by sending appropriate an CORS response, then the browser will not send the real request.

## Non Simple Req

- If the request is a **non-simple** request, the browser first sends a data-less **preflight** `OPTIONS request`, to verify that the server will accept the request.
- A request is **non-simple when**
  - using an HTTP verb other than GET or POST
  - using non-simple request headers; the only simple requests headers are:
    - Accept
    - Accept-Language
    - Content-Language
    - Content-Type (this is only simple when its value is application/x-www-form-urlencoded, multipart/form-data, or text/plain)
- A non-simple request whose preflight is successful is treated the same as a simple request (i.e., the server must still send Access-Control-Allow-Origin again for the actual response)

## how CORS work?

1. The browser sends the OPTIONS request with an Origin HTTP header.
   - origin is defined When a page from A attempts to access a user's data in B
   - `Origin: http://www.example.com`
2. The server at `B` may respond with:
   - An Access-Control-Allow-Origin (ACAO) header in its response indicating which origin sites are allowed. For example:

## Example

1. Supposing that `Site A` wants to send a `PUT` request for `/somePage`, with a non-simple `Content-Type` value of `application/json`, the browser would first send a preflight request:

   - `Access-Control-Request-Method` and `Access-Control-Request-Headers` are added by the browser automatically; you do not need to add them. This `OPTIONS preflight` gets the successful response headers:

2. On your computer, there's a cookie for yourbank.com. Maybe your session is in there.
   - When a client makes a request to the server, it will send the cookies stored under the domain for that request.
   - You're logged in on your browser to yourbank.com. You request to see all your accounts, and cookies are sent for yourbank.com. yourbank.com receives the pile of cookies and sends back its response (your accounts).
   - If another client makes a cross origin request to a server, those cookies are sent along, just as before.
   - You browse to malicious.com. Malicious makes a bunch of requests to different banks, including yourbank.com.
   - Since the cookies are validated as expected, the server will authorize the response.
   - Those cookies get gathered up and sent along - and now, malicious.com has a response from yourbank.
   - Yikes.
   - Why don't we just block the browser from doing that? Yep. That's CORS.
   - How do we get around it? Have the server tell the request that CORS is OK.

## Over The Top.

- Basically, the browser allows you, the human sitting at the computer, see any resource from any origin. It disallows scripts (which could be written by anyone) from reading resources from origins that are different from the origin of the page running the script.

## Doubts

1. If I am trying to access an API like, the Facebook API to login/ Google API to sign In to my webpage, how can these filter work, as they might have restricted the cross-domain access. So, in that case how can these filter by-pass done
