# Security HEADERS.

1. `X-Frame-Options` : Restricts the website to display in an i-frame.

   - possible values
   - `X-Frame-Options:DENY | SAMEORIGIN | ALLOW-FROM`
   - it prevents the **IFRAME**

2. `Content-Security-Policy`: Specifices which sources are allowed to load content

   - content such as scripts, stylesheets, images etc,,
   - it prevents **XSS** by blocking execution of malicious and unauthorized scripts.
   - possible values ?
   - `default-src 'self';base-uri 'self';font-src 'self' https: data:;form-action 'self';frame-ancestors 'self';img-src 'self' data:;object-src 'none';script-src 'self';script-src-attr 'none';style-src 'self' https: 'unsafe-inline';upgrade-insecure-requests`
   - A web site administrator wants all content to come from the site's own origin **(this excludes subdomains.)**
   - A web site administrator wants to allow content from a trusted domain and all its subdomains **(it doesn't have to be the same domain that the CSP is set on.)**

3. `Strict-Transport-Security`: Forces HTTPS by instruction browser to access this website only over a secure connection.

   - it prevents **MITM** attacks
   - possible values
     1. max-age=
     2. includeSubDomains
     3. preload
     4. `Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=inseconds,includeSubDomains,preload `

4. `X-XSS-Protection`: prevents or disable users built in **XSS** filters, when enabled the filter can help prevebt some types of XSS attacks.

   - it prevents ?
   - possible values
     1. `0`: Disables the XSS filter in web browsers.
     2. `1`: Enables the XSS filter in web browsers.
     3. `1; mode=block`: Enables the XSS filter and prevents rendering of the page if an attack is detected.
   - know more about this.

5. `X-Content-Type-Options`:

   - it prevents browser from interpreting files as a differnt mime types than what ther server specified.
   - prevents attacks that involve **tricking the browser into interpreting a file as something other than what it actually is**
   - possible values
     1. nosniff : prevents mime sniffing
     2. `X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff`
   - more examples

6. `Reffer-policy`: controls what information is included in the http referer header that is sent to server when the user clicks a link.

   - prevents **CSRF** attcks by limiting the amount of information that is sent along the request.
   - possible values
     1. no-referrer
     2.

7. `Feature-Policy`: controls which features can be used by the website.

8. `Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy` : It is a policy that applies to the embedding page and ensures that the embedded resource is isolated from its embedding context.
   - **it prevents embedding of resource on a different origin.**
   - possible values
     1. `require-corp`: resource should be isolated from its embedding context
     2. `require-secure`: resouce should be loaded only over a secure connection.
     3. `report-only`: browser will not enforce the policy, but will report any violations to an endpoint
     4. `none`: tells resouce can be embedded on any origin.
   - prevents
     1. Xross site scripting inclusion `XSSI`.
     2. CSRF.

---
