# Sorting

- process of rearraging items in a collection, so that items are in some kind of order

## Sort algorithms

1. Bubble
2. Selection
3. Insertion
4. Merge
5. Quick
6. Radix
7. Heap

## Bubble sort logic

- In bubble sort, we iterate over each index in nested loop manner
- In each interation the largest number is moved to end of the array
- This process is repated until the outer loop has iterated over all of the elements
- It is garaunteed that with in each outer loop iteration the array is sorted in from last (i,e) largest elemets keep on moving to the end of the array
- Optimizations:
  1. As we know for each iteration the last part of the array is sorted we can reduce the length of array by each passing iteration
  2. If with in an interation if none of the elements are swapped we can declare that the array is sorted.
- Complexity:
  1. Worst case: O(n2)
  2. Best case: 0(n)
  3. Space best and worst: O(1)

## Selection sort

- In selection sort we iterate over each index in a nested loop manner
- In each iteration the smallest number is moved to its correct place
- In this sort, we assume that the first smallest number is at the iterating index
- Then we find the smallest number from the array compared to the assumed one.
- as we iterate through out the end of the array we find the smallest number of the arry
- Now we swap the smallest number the outer loop iterating index.
- Once swapped, we move the outer loop iterating index by one which means we are always sorting the unsorted array.
- Optimizations
  1. we need not to compare the smallest value and the arr[j]th value as both of these are starting at same place.
- Complexity
  1. Best time case O^n2
  2. Worst time case O^n2
  3. Space best & worst O(1)

## Insertion sort

- In this sorting algorithm we sort the the array as if we are soritng elements in pack of cards.
- We first consider the first element to be sorted so we start sorting the array from index 1;
- We then compare the value at index 1 with index 0
- If index 1 > index 0 we loop over the sorted loop till we find correction position to fit the number.
- for ex:[6,7,10,8,9]
- array is sorted till index 2 i,e till 10, and current index is at 3
- as 8 <10 we iterate over element starting from index 2 we compare index 2 and 3 if [2]< [3] we swap until we find the right position.
- Complexities
  1. Best case o(n) where array is sorted.
  2. Worst/Avg case o(n2) when array is unsorted.
  3. Space o(1)
