# Why use docker?

- It helps in installing and run software on any given computer, on servers too.

## What is docker

- Docker is a platform around creating and running containers.
- A docker runs a linux virtual machine, which has linux kernel and this kernel is responsible for limiting the resources to the container.

1. docker client || Docker cli
2. docker server || Docker daemon
3. docker machine
4. docker image
5. docker hub
6. docker compose

## Image

- a single file with all the dependencies and configuration required to run a program.
- a lightweight, standalone, and executable software package that includes everything needed to run a piece of software, including the code, runtime, libraries, and system tools.
- It contains the necessary dependencies and configurations required to run that application consistently across different computing environments.
- Images are created from a set of instructions called a Dockerfile, which specifies the steps to build the image.
- creates a container.
- It fixes Portability, reproducability, Scaliability and Isolation

## Irony

- docker cli is where we issue commands which inturn talks to docker server to get the job done.

## System calls

- All the running programs need to interact with system hardware but system hardware is not directly exposed to programs, they talk through hardware using kernel.
- Kernel is incharge of talking to system hardware and getting the job done.
- Kernel exposes a few different API called `system API` and for a different operation there is a different API. Programs use these system API and call them to do a job which is called `System Call`

## Namespace

- Isolating resource per process

## Control groups

- Limit the amount of resources per process.

## Container

- it is an instance of an image which is running.
- it is an program with its own isoloated hardware, software resources.
- a process that has grouping associated to it.
