# Create a new docker image

- `docker run new-image-name`

## Override

- `docker run image alternate-command`

## List running containers

- `docker ps`
- `docker ps --all`
- list all the containers that ever created or started

## Container lifecycle

- `docker run image name` = `docker create image-name` + `docker start -a container id`
- docker create means setting up the Filesystem snapshot, allocating resources etc.
- docker start container means actually starting the process.
- `docker start -a container id`
- -a = attached.

## Remove stopped containers

- `docker system prune`
- removes all docker container and empties the filesystem resource and removes the installed containers and thier cache.

## Logs

- `docker logs containerid`
- logs out all the emitted logs by the container.

## Stop containers

- `docker stop container-id`
  - sends a SIGTERM (terminate signal) to the container, telling the container to shutdown at its own time, doing cleanup(save file, emit a message) etc...
  - get 10 seconds to shutdown or else the docker kills it.
- `docker kill container-id`
  - sends a SIGKILL (kill signal) to the container, telling the container to shutdown right now, withoiut giving any time to cleanup the container.

## Run additional commands in the container.

- `docker exec -it containerId command`
- exec -> execute
- -it allows to provide input to the container.
- allows to run second running program in the container.
- what exactly is `-it`, what does it do?
- linux has 3 communication channels

1. stdin - input stream
2. stdout - output stream
3. stderr - output stream but errors.

- `-i` tells the container to attach my terminal stdin to containers to stdin
- `-t` shows stdout and stderr in a clean formatted manner.

## Why do u want to keep running exec each time to connect and execute to container shells.

- `docker exec -it containerId sh`
- `docker exec -t containerId bash`
- starts a second process

# Build custom docker images

1. configuration file defines how our docker container should behave
   - Specify a base image
   - Run some commands to install additional packages
   - Specify a custom command to run the container setup.
2. Docker client
3. Docker server
4. Usable docker image
