# What is NMAP

- network mapper is a cli for for network scanning and security assessment
- it can identify hosts and services on a network.

## `HOST DISCOVERY`

1. `-sn` a.k.a. ping sweep
   - send s `ICMP` echo req in network to identify hosts that **respond** to th the request
   - it is not effective as it will not identify hosts that have firewalls
   - Use the ping sweep method when you want to **quickly identify active hosts on a network** and ICMP traffic is not blocked.

# ICMP Request

- Internet Control Message Protocol, which is a protocol used by network devices to send error messages and operational information about network conditions.
- A type of req **sent by HOST to request information about other host**.

# ARP request.

- ARP request (Address Resolution Protocol request) is a message sent by a host on a local network **to obtain the MAC (Media Access Control) address of another device on the same network**.
- A mac is address is required when a host wants to communicte with other host on the same network.
- A ARP request broadcasts a message that contains the ip address of the destination device.
- All devices on the local network receive the ARP request, but only the device with the matching IP address will respond with an ARP reply, which contains its MAC address.

2. `-PS` a.k.a. TCP SYN scan
   - sends tcp SYN packets to ip addresses
   - more stealthy than ping sweep method as it can identify host that block ICMP tracffic
   - Use the TCP SYN scan method when you want to **identify hosts that block ICMP traffic** and you have more time for the scan.
3. `-PU` a.k.a UDP scan:
   - sends UDP packets to ip addresses.
   - identifies hosts that only respond to UDP traffic.
   - Use the UDP scan method when you want to **identify hosts that only respond to UDP traffic**.
4. `-PR` a.k.a. ARP scan:
   - sends ARP requests to ip addresses
   - identifies hosts on a local network.
   - HOW IS THIS METHOD USEFUL?
   - WHAT IS AN ARP Request?
   - Use the ARP scan method when you want to **identify hosts on a local network** and have access to the ARP cache.
5.

# Procedure

1. host discovery tells which host are up and running.
2. -Sn
3. stages in host discovery
4. root host discovery
   1. icmp echo req.
   2. tcp syn 443
   3. tcp ack 80
   4. icmp time stamp req
5. local host discovery
   1. tcp syn 443
   2. tcp ack 70
6. dont do host discover
   1. nmap -Pn ip
   2. this tell dont to any host discovery sida konse port open hai aur konse closed
7. scan techq
8. by default nmap scan the top 1000 ports

# SCAN by ports

1. `nmap ip -p 80`
2. `nmap ip -p20-30` scan port 20 to 30
3. `nmap ip -p22,34,56,78` scan only these ports.
4. `nmap ip -p http` scan by service.
5. `nmap ip -p T:22,U:53` scan port 22 in tcp and 53 in udp.
6. `nmap ip -p-` scan all ports for the ip.
7. `nmap ip --top-ports 100` scan top 100 ports

# Scan by a techniques

1.

#

1. postgres refer to roadmap (imp)
2. dsa refer to yt (imp)
3. gsap and projects refer to downloaded course (imp)
4. typescript refer to udemy course (imp)
5. api security (imp)
6. bandit game (imp -2)
7. nmap (imp -2)
8. system design (imp -2)
9.
