# About node runtime

1. Node runtinme is an enviornment which provides all necessary components in order to use and run a js program outside browser.

- External Dependencies
  - libvu
  - v8
  - zlib
  - crypto
- C++ features
  - file system access
  - networking
- JS features
  - utilities to tap into js code

2. Javascript is blocking, synchronous and single threaded language

   - synchronous, any one program is executed top-down at any given time.
   - blocking, becuase of its synchronous nature, the next process dosent start util the earlier one is finished
   - single threaded, a thread is simply a process that your js program can use ti run a task and each thread can do only one task at a time.

# Web Framework

- A framework is simply an abstraction of the lower level code allowing you the devloper to focus on the requirements that the code itselfs.
  examples- express, nest, hapi, koa and sails.
  They are build on top if node http module>>

# Libuv

- A cross platform open source library written in C.
- Handles asynchronous non-blocking operations in nodejs
- uses thread pool and event loop

## Thread pool

- A pool of threads that node js uses to offload time consuming task and ensure that main thread is not blocked with time consuming tasks.
- `process.env.UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE=5`
- by increasing thread pool size we are able to improve the total time taken to run multiple calls of an asynchronous method.
- NOTE: If you increase the pool size beyond the limit of cores available on your machine the OS scheduler, it juggles between mutiples threads across n cores, it switches threads between cores as each thread get equal amount of time.

## Netwrok I/O

- A http req is a network bound input/output operation and not a CPU bound opearation
- HTTP req doesnt use thread pool
- doesnt get affected by CPU cores
- Libuv delegates the work to the opeating system kernel and whenever possible it will poll the kernel and if the request has completed.
  > How kernel makes a network call?

Node js async methods are handled by either on these ways

1. Native async mechanism
2. Thread pool

- Whenever possible linuv will use native async mechanism to avoid blocking the main thread
  As this is part of the kernel there is different mechanism for each OS.
  - we have epoll for Linux
  - Kqueue for Macos
  - IO completetion PORT for Windows

# How code is executed in a Node js env

- V8 engines executes JS code, it comprises of
  1.  Memory Heap
      - Declaring variable and functions, memory is allocated in heap
  2.  Call stack
      - Functions exeuted here, follows stack principle.

## Event loop

- Event loop is a design pattern that co-ordinates the execution of sync and async code in nodejs
