## basics

1. default port no : 5432
2. command used to backup
   1. pg_dump
   2. **need more info**
3. list all db : `\l`
4. purpose of `VACCUM` in psql
5. diff b.w `SERIAL` && `UUID`
6. create a user name jhon and password123
   1. `create user jhon with password "password123"`;
7. function to get data & time : `now()`
8. enable and check query execution plan
   1. `explain` `query`
9. connect to mybd: `psql -d dbName`
10. what is toast table? `The Oversized-Attribute Storage Technique`
    1. a toast table is table in postgreaql where data of size more than 8kb is stored and a pointer to its memory location is sotred in the column
    2. done by datatypes such as `TEXT`, `BYTEA` , `VARCHAR`
    3. done automatically by postgres
    4. no need of extra configuration
    5. if row size extends 8kb then data is mamaged used TOAST
11. retive the version of postres: `SELECT version();`
12. diff btween ` left` and `inner join`
13. how to prevent **SQL injection**?
    1. **we should treat use input as data not as executable query**
14. what is **savepoint** and when should you use it?

    1. a savepoint is used for setting a point within a transaction from which we can roll back
    2. **need more info**
    3. example
       1. image playing a game with levels 1,2,3,4,5,6, now suppose player dies in level 3 we can continue from level3 not from level1 because we made a savepint
    4. code
    5. ```sql
          BEGIN;
          UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance - 100 WHERE customer_id = 123;
          SAVEPOINT my_savepoint;
          UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance + 100 WHERE customer_id = 456;
         ROLLBACK TO my_savepoint;
         UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance + 50 WHERE customer_id = 456;
       	 COMMIT;
       ```

15. difference between `TRUNCATE` & `DELETE`
    1. truncate
       1. faster way to empty a table
       2. it doesnt delete individaul row & delete
       3. it also reset table identity columns?
          1. **what does this mean**
    2. delete
       1. removes one row at a time
       2. faster than truncate
       3. can be combined with where clause to conditionally remove rows
    3. drop
       1. it is used to drop a table
       2. which will remove all data as well as relations
16. data type used to store ip: `inet`
17. how to add a new column to existing table:
    1. `alter table tabkeName add column newCOlumname data type default value`;
18. Addd foreign key constraint
    1. `alter table tableName add constraint constrainName foreign key keyname reference tableName(columnName)`;
19. JOINS
    1. inner join
       1. it is used to **retrieve records that have maching value in both table**
    2. left join / left outer join
       1. it is used to **retrieve all records from left table as weel as matched records from right table**
    3. right join / right outer join
       1. it is used to **retrieve all records from right table and matched records from left one**
    4. full join/ full outer join
       1. it used to retieve all records from both tables inlcuding non matching one too
    5. cross join/ cartesian join
    6. self join
       1. it is used to join the current table itself
    7. natural join

```

```

psql -h fingo-prod-rds.ccntqhpod9k2.ap-south-1.rds.amazonaws.com -U fingo_prod -d fingo_prod

psql -h fingo-prod-rds.ccntqhpod9k2.ap-south-1.rds.amazonaws.com -U fingo_prod -d fingo_prod -c '\copy public."creditCardCOA"(income,min_credit_score,max_credit_score,card_id, chance_of_approval,is_salaried) from '/tmp/fingo-docs/new_credit_card_coa.csv' with(format csv, header true);'

u5QtFC$Txr3jzX0UPG!wSI8EYN

console.log(output);// undeinfed 
console.log(y.x); // 30
console.log(a == true);
console.log(a.length); // 6
console.log(a[4]); undeinfed
console.log(value); //10
console.log("Hello " + name);
