# Postgres

- Features

1. ACID compliance
2. MVCC
3. Extensibility (allows users to define data tyoe, operators and functions)
4. Full text search
5. High availability

- Benifits

1. Open source
2. Huge community
3. Platform independent
4. Highly scalable

## Relational database

1. Relational databases are a type of database management system (DBMS) that stores and organizes data in a structured format called tables
2. **Primary Key** is a column or set of columns in table that uniquely identifies each row.
3. **Foreign Key** is a column or set of columns in a table that refers to primary key of another table.

## Advantages of Relational Databases

1. Data Integrity
2. Structred Data
3. Querying using SQL
4. Scalibility

### Postgres vs No SQL

1. Postgres provides vertical scalability where as nosql provides horizontal scalability
2. Postgres uses schema based approach for data modelling, this allows for **data integrity, consistency through constraints**, where as nosql uses more flexible data models which means data integrity must be handled at application level.
3. Postgres uses SQL as its query language, where as each nosql db can have its own language.
4. Postgres should be considered for application which require consistent well structured data such as banks, nosql is a better fit for application with large volume of unstructed data such as social media,Applications that require high performance, scalability, and availability, such as real-time analytics, gaming platforms, or search engines.

### What to keep in mind before chosing sql, nosql db?

1. Data structure.
2. Schema flexibility
3. Scalibility requirements

### What is a schema?

- Schema is the structrie the define the tables, views, indexes and theirn relationship in database. This enforeces data integrity thorugh constraints.
- They follow the relational model defined by E.F. Codd in 1970.

### What is normalization?

- Normalization is a process of organizing data in to db to reduce redundancy eliminate data anomalies and enure proper r/s between tables.

### What are ACID properties

1. A:Atomicity: All operations in a transaction must fail or succeed as a unit.
2. C:Consistency: DB will remain consitent before and after transaction
3. I:Isolation: Transactions are isolated from each other ensuring that each transaction doesn't effect the other.
4. D:Durability: Once a transaction is commited its effects are permanently stored in db.
