# How to configure POSTGRES

## What can be configured and how will it be helpful?

## What does each configuration do

## Basic configuration

## Intermediate configuration

## Advance Configurations

## What is `pg_ctl`?

- pg_ctl is a utility to initialize, start, stop, or control a PostgreSQL server.
- `postgresql.conf` file should be stored in the data directory of the PostgreSQL server.

## How to find the data directory of the PostgreSQL server

1. by using `pg_config` clt
   - pg_config provides information about the installed version of PostgreSQL.
2. `SELECT setting FROM pg_settings WHERE name = 'data_directory';`
3. Using postgresql server log file.
   - usually located in the `/var/log/postgresql`
4. In my machine `/Users/ali/Library/Application Support/Postgres/var-15`

## Name and location of configuration file

1. It is not mandatory for the configuration file name to be `postgresql.conf`
2. And the it is also not mandatory for the configuration file to located in the data directory of postgresql installation.
3. **_IMP_** Both can be changed like this
   - `postgres -D specify the location of configuration file -c Name of the configuration file`
   - `postgres -D /etc/postgresql/12/main/ -c config_file=my_config.conf`

## How to find out which configuration file is used by postgresql server

1. log into the postgresql server
   - `psql -U postgres`
2. **RUN `SHOW config_file`**

## Can different configuration files be used for a different databases?

- No PostgreSQL uses a **single configuration file** to configure the behavior of the **entire PostgreSQL cluster**, **which includes all of the databases** within the cluster.

## What is a Postgresql cluster

- In postgresql, a cluster refers the all the dbs managed by a single postgresql server instance.
- A cluster inculdes
  1. configuration files.
  2. system catalogs
  3. tables.
  4. data directories for actual data for each db.
- Multiples postgresql servers can be run on a single server with differnt port number

## KEYS

- **max_conections**
- log_rotation_size
- **shared_buffers**
- **log_min_duration_statement**
- **log_duration**

## CONFIGURATION

## `max_connections`

1. specifies the maximum number of **concurrent connections** allowed to db server.

   - default is 100
   - max_connections can have a significant impact on performance and stability of the server,
   - `monitor memory used by each connection`= memory used by postgres / number of active connections.
   - `estimate the max no of connection system can support` = available system resoucres
   - `no of connections required to support workload`
   - (num_of_cpu\*2)+1

   - ```sql
     SELECT current_timestamp, count(*)
       FROM pg_stat_activity
       WHERE state = 'active'
       GROUP BY 1;
     ```

2. By default when a connection is established to db via client the connection is not broken until user logsout, but some libraries such as `prisma` tend to end the connection once a db query is resolved
3. And By default `prsima` allows a **maxium of 10 concurrent connections**.
4. When using Prisma with PostgreSQL, each query made by Prisma will typically open a new database connection, execute the query, and close the connection. This is done automatically by **Prisma's query engine**, which manages connections to the database pool.
5. To overidride in max_connections in prsima `connectionLimit: 20` in `PrismaClient`
6. **IMP** when using **pooling** set max_connections no as low as muiltple of( 2 to 5) of the number of cores on the server.

- **Concurrency is about dealing with lots of things at once. Parallelism is about doing lots of things at once.**

## `shared_buffers`

- determines amount of memory to allocate for shared buffer pool.
- a shared buffer pool is used **cache recently accessed data to speed up the recenlty executed qeuries**
- when a new query is executed, postgres check if the required query data is present in the buffer if so postgres will not execute the query simply send the data from the buffer.
- Buffer value should be a **max of 25% of available system memory**.

## What if some data is updated, and shared_buffer hold the data which should be served? Is the data provided to this query stale?

## `logging_collector`

- determines whether to cpature the server logs output into files.
- in simple words write logs to files.
- upon `ON`, psql writes logs to files instead of sending them to OS syslog service.
- is used when **psql runs in a container when OS syslog is not available**.
- possible values on || off.

## `log_destination`

- determines where to send log output.
- we can specify one or more log desitantion based on log message type.
- Types of log messages.
  1. `stderr`
  2. `csvlog`
  3. `syslog`
  4. `eventlog`
  5. `file`
  6. we can specify multiple log destination seperated by commas.

```py
# example of postgresql.conf for log destination.
# log error message to /errorlog/postgres-YYYY-MM-DD.log
log_destination = 'stderr'
logging_collector = on
log_directory = '/errorlog'
log_filename = 'postgresql-%Y-%m-%d.log'
log_min_messages = ERROR

# csv lof
logging_collector = on
log_destination = 'csvlog'
log_directory = '/csvlog'
log_filename = 'postgresql-%Y-%m-%d.csv'

# syslog
logging_collector = on
log_destination = 'syslog'
syslog_facility = 'LOCAL0'
syslog_ident = 'postgresql'
log_min_messages = NOTICE
```

## `log_rotation_size`

- determines maximun size of **individual** log file size.
- when a log file reaches it size postgres will rotate it with new file.
- can be specified in human readable format.
- Rotate log files after they reach 100MB
  - `log_rotation_size = 100MB`
- if `logging_collector` is set `on` then `log_rotation_size` will be applied to that dir.

## `log_checkpoints`

- GHANTA

## `log_min_duration_statement`

- determines whether to log sql quries which look longer than a specified duration.
- helps in figuring out which sql query is effecting the performace
- when `log_min_duration_statement` is set to non-negative value postgres will log all queriies which took more than specified time.
- `log_min_duration_statement=1000`
- this paramter can work in conjuction with log collector file anmd direcoty

## `log_duration`

- PostgreSQL logs the duration of each SQL statement executed by the database, measured in milliseconds.
- useful for identifying queries that are taking a long time to execute and may be causing performance issues in your application.
- `log_duration = on`

## `min_wal_size`

- WAL - Write ahead log
- stores changes to the db before written to permanent storage.
- By writing changes to WAL buffer first, psql can ensure that changes are persisted to permanent storage even in case of system crash.
- WAL is main component of psql reliability and durability
- by increasing the min_wal_size it effects the performance as memory usage increases
- if min_wal_size is drops below a certain threshold, psql will trigger a checkpoint a write changes to permanent storage.
- what is the threshold value??
  - it is determined by `checkpoint_completion_target` parameter which specifies **target duration for a checkpoint to complete**
- how to calculate the required wal value?
- if `min_wal_size` is low than the `checkpoint_completion_target` it is possible that **WAL buffer may fill up before a checkpoint can be completed** and in such case that data will be **Permanently lost**.

- ### db executed data is not direcly written to permanent storage instead it is first written to `wal_buffer` in bytes and upon reaching a checkoint duration these data will be wriiten to permanent storage

- ### This is necessary because to enusre durability and consistency if the database. **_This allows psql to maintain sequential records_**

- ### WAL acts as a temporary storage location for changes to be held until they are safely written to db and in an event of crash the data is not lost yet data is not tampered and written in sequence

## `checkpoint_warning`

## `checkpoint_timeout`

## `max_wal_size`

## `max_replication_slots`

- to unserstand `max_replication_slots` first u need to understand about db servers.
- There can be a maximun of 3 kinds of db servers.
  1. Primary server
  - Acts as master db, handles all reads and writes.
  - It is also the source for replication server
  2. Standy server
  - Acts as a slave db server.
  - recives data from primary server and replicates it.
  - In case of primay server breakdown Standby server can take up as primary server.
  3. Replication server
  - Acts as intermediary between primary and standby db server.
  - Replicates data from priary server to multiple destinations.

## `

## Postgresql MONITORING Tools
